Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture on representing a tree as a list of lists.
So if you go to the folder for trees you'll see a lecture or a note book titled tree representation
implementation and princes lists.
So this is the code we're going to be going over.
You'll notice it's actually just a series of functions we're not going to be using any object oriented
programming or classes.
We'll do that in the next implementation of a tree.
But this is just to give you a basic idea of how we could implement a tree using lists a built in data
structure in Python.
So I'll be coding these functions out and explaining what each of them do along the way.
All right.
So I encourage you to follow along.
So let's go ahead and get started.
I'm going to start out by creating a function and I'll call it binary tree.
It's going to take in in arguments are for the root node and then it's going to return a list and this
list will have are that root node and then it's going to have two other empty lists.
So what this function does it just simply constructs a list with the root node and then to empty sublists
for the children.
And now what we're going to want to do is if we want to add a left subtree to the root of a tree we
need to insert a new list into the second position of the root list.
So you have to be careful here if the list already has something in that second position.
We need to keep track and then push it down the tree as left child.
The list we are adding.
So let's go and see the code for inserting a left child.
So I'm just going to make each cell have a function in it.
So I'm going to make a function called inserts left.
It's going to take in the roots and then it's going to take an object we'll call new branch
we'll set a variable t equal to roots pop and we'll pop out that index at 1.
So that will be the left and then we'll say if length of T is greater than one meaning it has something
in it.
I'm going to call root's thoughts inserts and we'll go over what that actually means in a second we'll
say the inserts one and then we'll also pass in new branch T and an empty list.
OK so we know now what to do if there's already a list there.
So we'll do an L statements to say roots that inserts and keep in mind insert is just a method on a
list will insert new branch
and then also passen to empty lists.
Since there's nothing there yet.
And then I'll return the roots that we basically affected.
OK.
So notice here that insert a left child.
We first obtain a list which could possibly be empty that corresponds to that current left child.
Then we add the new left child installing the old left child as the left child of the new one.
So this basically allowing us to splice a new node into the tree at any position.
So we're going to do another function called insert right which is going to be really really similar
.
So similar in fact that I'm going to copy this function and then show you the differences here.
So if I'm inserting rights I'm actually going to pop in or pop out to here since that's going to correspond
to that right.
Branch excuse me right child.
This actually stays the same.
So if there is something already in there I'm going to go ahead and insert index to the new branch.
And in this case I'm going to read order.
These guys since I'm inserting the rights so it goes new branch and empty list.
See if there's already something in there.
Otherwise it goes index too.
And the list that we're inserting here is new branch and stillest empty list.
So to round out this set of tree making functions we're going to write a couple of access functions
for getting and setting the value as well as getting the left or right subtrees.
So this is just going to be a series of short functions.
First one let's say I want to get the root to value or make a function called Get roots.
Well it'll take in that list that roots and is just going to return the first item in that list the
index 0.
So that makes sense since we define the root as zero.
OK then I want to say death sets.
So I want to set a new root value.
I've taken that route and I will also take in any value.
All right.
And the way I'm going to do that is just re-assign
index 0 there.
So notice I'm not returning anything I'm just resetting that route and different want to get the left
child will say Get Left child passen the roots and the way we're constructing this that's going to be
index 1
and you can imagine for getting the right child is going to be extremely similar except will do it index
to something and say return routes to.
OK so is this list of functions we've actually already done a simple representation of lists so let's
go ahead and use them.
So I'm going to say R is equal to binary tree.
Of value 3 and then say let's go ahead and inserts left passen that route has a value of 4.
And here you can see we're actually building out the tree.
So it's returning what the tree is looking like.
So then let's go ahead and insert and other ones to the left.
Again we passed in that room.
Let's put in five.
You can see our building at that tree.
Let's go and insert rights let's say six books.
Forgot to pass in that route.
All right then we're going to inserts right.
Let's go ahead and do another one.
Let's just say seven again.
Got a pass in that route.
OK.
And notice how we're building out that tree in the list of lists fashion.
Now normally you wouldn't do it this way.
You'll use a class and object oriented programming with nodes and references which we're going to do
in next lectures.
But here we can actually just get a simple representation of a list purely through functions.
Excuse me a simple reference is that representation of a tree purely through the data structure of a
list in Python.
OK so you can see how we're inserting left and right and it's building up that tree so we can also say
for instance L is equal to get left child node pass in the root node and let's go ahead and print's
else see what it looks like and you can see now what that left child off that route looks like.
And we also mention we created a set root value.
So I can pasan for instance that left child.
And so it's equal to 9 I print our notice.
Now we've affected that by setting it's true here since I'm still referencing that original tree.
OK.
So that's it for the basics here.
Go ahead and review this.
Make sure you understand how you're building out this tree.
It's pretty simple.
You're just answering left index one checking to make sure if there's a list in there how you build
out that new branch.
Otherwise you build out an empty branch.
No reference to that previous pop that list and then right.
Same thing except now it's index too.
And then these simple methods are just basically indexing to grab left and right.
OK that's it for this lecture.
Thank you guys so much and I'll see you at the next lecture.